So the last part of the lecture I wanna
talk about today are some really cool
applications of Advanced Management
Marketing Science by Leading Firms.
And these are firms that are bringing
all five aspects together.
They're using better data,
better exploratory methods,
better predictive methods.
They're using better optimization
to actually make business decisions
that influence the products and
services they sell.
So let me start with the first one.
Many of you may know
Kohl's Department Store.
It's a very large national
chain department store,
and kind of the low to
medium end department store.
And by the way, remember from my
earlier slide this isn't Google,
Amazon or Facebook.
This is a brick and mortar retailer,
Kohl's doing the following.
They're doing what's called
Smartphone Targeting.
So for example,
they have data on your geospatial
location when you walk in the store.
And you might say,
well how do they have that?
Well, if you have your Wi-Fi
turned in on your cell phone.
Turned on on your cell phone.
The minute you walk into the store and you
pick up the Wi-Fi network in that store.
It knows your geospatial location.
So they're using their Wi-Fi network
to know your geospatial location.
Everyone's cell phone has what's
called a fixed IP address, so
they can know it's you.
They can now link that to what you've
done if you've gone on to their website
kohls.com.
Let's say they know that Eric Bradlow
was standing in front of the shoe aisle.
They can now actually send
me a real time discount for
shoes, whether through text or
it could even be a phone call.
They can actually send me a real time
discount cuz I'm standing in front of
the shoe aisle.
So let's now reveal this in terms
of my five forces, if you like.
Why can Kohl's do this?
They have data that it's me through
my phone and the Wi-Fi network.
They may have linked this hopefully,
to my behavior online and
possibly through their data network and
online and offline in the store.
They know physically where I'm standing.
And now, the action they are taking
is to send me a targeted or
contextual discount given
my physical location.
This is extremely valuable data.
There's the old adage in marketing,
it's not just selling the person the right
product, it's the right product at
the right place at the right time.
Kohl's is taking advantage,
that's what I'm saying, what's the better
time to send Eric Bradlow a men's shoe
discount than when he's standing right
in front of the men's shoe aisle.
It's not valuable 30 minutes before I get
to the store, it's not as valuable 30
minutes after, it's valuable
right when I'm standing there.
So this is an example of a company that's
recognizing they can collect better data.
They can use that data for
decision making, and
they're gonna operationalize against it.
Here's another one, Netflix.
I think so
many of us have become huge fans of
the content that Netflix is creating.
As a matter of fact, for those of you who
don't know by 2020, there will be more
video content consumed on
Netflix than any other provider
that include YouTube,
that includes any broadcast at nbc.com.
Think about it Netflix the US
population will be watching more
content on Netflix than any other
place in the world, that's amazing.
Now, most people think well Netflix
is getting lucky in creating content.
Not so fast.
That's not true.
So let me tell you what Netflix is doing.
Netflix is doing what's called meta
tagging data meaning of course,
when you log onto Netflix,
they know what you watch.
This is the ultimate
in customer analytics.
They can measure customer by
customer what it is you're watching.
But here's what they're also doing.
Every show you watch gets what's called
meta tags or if you like attributes or
descriptors.
So they know if Eric Bradlow
watched a police show
that takes place in the 1970s
in a warm weather city.
So imagine having that corpus of data
from millions and millions of customers.
Well now, rather than saying,
what show could we create?
Now, imagine the director sitting there
saying, I see what the data's telling me.
People really like police shows that take
place in warm weather cities in the 1970s.
Hey, let's create a police show
from warm weather in the 1970s.
And so what companies like Netflix
are doing is they're using data mining and
customer analytic methods
to create content.
And actually this reminds me of a project
I worked on ten years ago was how to
optimally design ads of using attributes
of which ads were successful.
And I remember getting a rude awakening.
And this is maybe an idea before its time.
I remember going to all the different
ad agencies and saying,
you know what,
I know you use art to create ads.
I got a scientific way for you to do it.
I know how much music you
should have in an ad.
I know whether you should
have dogs in an ad.
have kids in an ad.
I thought they would embrace me like,
Eric Bradlow you're the messiah.
Well, they weren't ready for
Science and Art.
They were only ready for Art.
I'm hoping things that
what Netflix are doing
can bring more Science to
the problem of creation of content.
Another example, American Express.
Obviously one of the big problems American
Express faces today is churn modeling.
They wanna know who's gonna give up
their American Express card, why?
Well, one of the drivers that
you heard about in the other
lectures of this marketing content was
the idea of customer lifetime value.
I don't think I need to repeat, but
I'll repeat briefly Churn is a big
part of customer lifetime value.
If someone churned
through American Express,
American Express makes no revenue
from them after they've churned.
So you say well, what does
American Express need analytics for?
You apply for an American Express card,
you fill out a lot of data.
What's the problem?
Well, there's no problem except when
American Express has found is that
your social network data is a very
strong predictor of whether or
not you're going to Churn.
So what American Express is doing which
is what many firms are doing today.
They're scraping, this is all legal.
They're legally scraping data from the
World Wide Web of let's say, Eric Bradlow.
Like what did I say on Facebook and
how many friends do I have?
And what photos of my posting on Flickr,
and all this other kind of stuff.
And they're taking that data and
they're adding that as extra variables in
predicting whether I'm going to Churn.
Like for example,
if I posted on Facebook today.
Oh man, I'm broke and I just lost my job.
That's probably pretty predictive
of whether I'm going to Churn or
maybe not pay back my
American Express card.
Probably pretty valuable for
American Express to know that, so
this brings to bear a lot of issues.
Better data, the company can manage and
collect that data.
They can quantify that data,
meaning they're using what are called
natural language processing
techniques to take the textual data
from the stuff I've posted on the web.
And they're turning that into
numerical data that they can fit
into a numerical Churn model.
That's remarkable to me
how far this has come.
And again,
not only are companies doing this but
you should know this as a customer.
When you post stuff on the web, you should
know that companies are scraping this.
As a matter of fact, it's not just
American Express that's doing this.
The next person who that's thinking about
hiring you is scraping information from
you about your social media usage, and
they're deciding whether you meet
their standards or not based on this.
So this is very valuable data that
is now part of the analytics arena.
The next example is in health care.
While I'm not an expert in health care,
I am an expert in analytics.
And the number one problem
in health care today,
the two big problems in health care today
is number one, what it says on the right?
Patient adherence.
So how do you get patients to take the
medications that are prescribed to them?
That's one big challenge.
The second is what's called
predictive analytics and
that's what I'm showing
you on the bottom before.
If you think about the way medicine
works today, and why it costs so
much to the government and to the planet
is because we wait till you get sick and
then we treat you in the optimal way.
But imagine I could predict
what from your medical records,
which is the picture I'm
showing you on the left.
Imagine I could predict
the illnesses you're going
to get 20 years before you get them.
Now, instead of trying to solve
the problem by treating you optimally,
I try to prevent you from
getting this disease optimally.
So imagine I knew that Eric Bradlow,
I was gonna have high blood
pressure 20 years from now.
Well why don't I start taking the drug
right now that prevents me from getting
high blood pressure?
And now, I've turned a reactive
problem into a pro active problem.
And this is the future of
analytics in health care today.
It's trying to predict peoples
diseases far in the future but
if you think about what we've been
talked about when you watched me and
my colleagues talk about,
this is analytics.
This is marketing analytics.
I'm gonna target individual customers
based on their patient records,
based on what drugs they've taken,
based on their maybe family history,
based on their consumption of goods and
services.
I'm gonna target them optimally for the
right way to make them adhere to drugs,
and with the right protocol to
prevent the future illnesses.
This isn't backward looking,
it's forward looking.
This is maybe one of my favorite
ones which is Google Free Taxi.
If you haven't heard,
Google has been working for
the last five years on driverless cars.
Now you might say wow, that's kind of
interesting, that would be kind of cool.
Yeah, but here's an opportunity that
they are thinking about to monetize it.
So what you see on the left is just
an example of purchase history data.
What you see on the right is a formula for
computing the customer lifetime value.
Imagine Google doing the following, I'm
just picking Bloomingdale's as an example.
Imagine I go onto bloomingdales.com and I
start saying, I like this and I like this,
and I like this and I start thinking
about all kinds of stuff I wanna buy.
Now, Bloomingdale's can measure this and
now I'd say,
hey wait a second it's Bradlow,
Bradlow's back.
He's a very valuable customer.
Imagine Google partners with
Bloomingdale's and says wait a second,
I understand Bradlow buying
online's valuable, but
imagine we sent a driverless car over to
Eric Bradlow's house to pick him up and
drive him to Bloomingdale's for free.
So image Google partnering
with retailers to actually
offer a free ride to a store based
on your customer lifetime value.
This may be if you like
the Mount Rushmore of analytics.
It's Google,
who kinda knows what you're doing,
partnering with a brick and
mortar or an online retailer
to send an actual car to your home
based on customer lifetime value.
That has all the aspects of data capture,
kind of analysis
prediction, and action which is
physically sending the car to your house.
And if you think by the way
that this is fantasy and
this is never coming, it's coming.
In the next ten years,
I guarantee you that not only will
there be driverless cars on the road,
but there will be driverless cars on
the road that are tied to analytics.
Starbucks.
Starbucks is actually a much
more brilliant firm around
analytics than people
give them credit for.
And if you see here, I've given you these
two pictures which seem like an oxymoron,
like they don't go together,
like customer loyalty equals no deal.
What do you mean customer
loyalty equals no deal?
I give the best deals to my customers,
to my better customers, right?
No, that's not right.
The people you should give the best
deals to are the people that giving them
the deal changes their behavior.
So let's imagine Eric Bradlow stops at
8 o'clock in the morning at Starbucks
every single day.
Do you think if they give me a deal
I'm gonna stop at Starbucks?
How can I stop there more
than every single day?
Maybe they can give me a deal
to get larger wallet share.
Maybe instead of getting my muffin
at work and my coffee at Starbucks,
I get both at Starbucks.
But you don't give deals
to your best customers,
you give deals to your customers for
which the ROI is the highest.
And Starbucks recognizes this
through their loyalty program.
They want to give deals to the people
right on the brink of being loyal.
They wanna turn disloyal or
infrequent customers into frequent ones.
They're not trying to turn frequent
customers into frequent customers cuz
frequent customers are already
frequent customers.
So they've taken analytics
to the next level.
Where they recognize, you don't just treat
your highest revenue customers the best,
you treat your customers the best for
which the ROI of that
expenditure is the highest.
And by the way, that's typically not
customers who buy the most from you.
People get this wrong all the time.
High value customers are already loyal,
they already buy a lot and
you probably get a lot of their
dollar wallet share already.
It's that interior customer, it's that
middling customer that you wanna tip
towards a heavy buyer and
not towards a light buyer.
Those are the ones you should target and
Starbucks knows this.
The next one, Call Centers.
A lot of you may not want to admit it,
unfortunately you can't see me and
I can't see you.
But a lot of you may not want to admit
this, but how many of you have ever called
a company on the phone cuz you had a bad
experience with a product and started
screaming into the phone or started
screaming at the person on the other line?
I think everyone of us has to be
honest and say, we've done this.
Now you might say,
what does this have to do with analytics?
Well, it has everything to do with
analytics, and how marketing and
sales are done today.
Imagine Eric Bradlow calls on the phone,
let's imagine I call Comcast,
my local provider.
And I'm not saying anything.
I like Comcast,
they're a good cable provider but
lots of people call up that
they're upset with Comcast.
And I'm not picking on Comcast.
They know they have if you'd like, a
customer satisfaction issue with Comcast.
Let's imagine I call up Comcast and
I start screaming into the phone,
my cable service is out again,
the picture is blurry blah blah blah,
I start screaming at him.
Well, two things.
The first one is gonna be
not surprising to you.
First of all, Comcast knows it's me that's
calling cuz I'm calling from my home.
They can see I have ten TVs in my house
and by the way, I'm not exaggerating.
I'm a TV family.
I like TV.
I have a lot of Comcast boxes which means
I'm a very valuable customer to Comcast,
so they can see that.
Notice already, look at the data.
My phone is now linked to my account.
They can see it's me.
They don't ask me it's me.
They know it's me when I call.
And the person that's answering
the phone knows my lifetime value.
They can see how much I've spent over
the last, my average monthly purchase.
And they can see that I've
been a customer for 15 years.
Second thing is,
they can listen to the intonation,
software now can listen to the anger
in my voice and decide and
put a script up there for
the person it went Bradlow, angry.
Churn, not good.
Gotta do something about this.
And so here's an example where a firm
has taken really, natural language and
intonation software and merged it with
CRM systems and database management and
they're merging these together
they could do one of two things.
One is, the script could be for
the person.
Wait, calm down Mr. Bradley.
We understand you're angry, etc.
Or they could patch me through to a
different person who's better at handling
angry people.
And that's even a greater
possibility of using analytics.
So here's an example of
a firm that's doing better
customer relationship management.
Call center routing,
if you like through the use of analytics.
Amazon, ship before you buy.
This is kind of again,
one of my favorite ones.
You see a picture here again of
someone's purchase history and
you can see a purchase for
a picture of a drone.
No, I don't think Amazon's really gonna
have drones flying above my house,
ready to drop a package off.
But what Amazon can do.
And I mentioned this briefly
in the introduction and
a little bit in the summary
is what Amazon can do
is they can predict what Eric Bradlow's
going to buy in advance of me buying it.
They can ship it to a local
retailer near my house.
And so if I order it,
I'm gonna get it that day.
Imagine the possibility and the customer
lifetime value you can build by
saying if you order by noon, the product
will be at your home today by 5 o'clock.
Think about what you'd be
willing to pay for that.
Now again, what allows Amazon to do this?
Number one,
they've got really good data cuz they're
tracking data at
the individual customer level.
Two, they've got
a recommendation engine and
they build it to do predictive modeling.
So they can predict what Eric Bradlow's
gonna buy in the future.
Not what Eric Bradlow bought in the past.
What Eric Bradlow's going
to buy in the future.
Number three,
they have extensive distribution.
But to local retailers near my home.
Number four, they have an ability
to act and charge for this.
So are they gonna do it for
Eroc Bradlow for free?
No, that'll be Amazon Prime Prime.
Amazon Prime Prime won't be free shipping,
it might be free shipping but
here's an extra price you
pay if you want it that day.
And so imagine the power that analytics
has brought to these kinds of companies.
So just to wrap up and to talk to you
about kind of the ultimate takeaways here.
What I've tried to talk to you about
is technology meets management and
marketing science.
So what you should be focusing on,
if you're sitting here
listening to this lecture.
The first thing you should be thinking of
is technology's wonderful it's cool, but
this isn't the thing about your
personal home use and devices.
How can I use technology,
whether it's eye tracking data, GPS data,
web data, purchase data, survey data,
how can I use this data to
better understand my customer?
The second,
it's never the golden age of data.
So if you're still making decisions
today with store level data or
aggregate data, you're probably giving
up a lot of money cuz there's data
at a more granular level that's gonna
allow you to make the same decisions, but
at the level of the individual customer.
Third, if you think this
is nice to know stuff,
I'm not in the nice to know business.
If I had a dollar for every study that was
done that's nice to know, that's great.
But I'm into problems and the way I
think of analytics is towards action.
And this is real monetization.
Do you think Kohl's, Google, Amazon
are doing this cuz this is nice to know.
They're doing it cuz they see
a real opportunity to make money.
So I want to thank you for your attention.
Go on to my website,
go on to the customer analytics website.
Don't ever stop learning
about analytics and
how it can be applied to
your particular business?